Exercise 9

1)

Create an nginx pod with a liveness probe that just runs the command 'ls'. Save its YAML in pod.yaml. Run it, check its probe status, delete it.

Modify the pod.yaml file so that liveness probe starts kicking in after 5 seconds whereas the interval between probes would be 5 seconds. Run it, check the probe, delete it.

Create an nginx pod (that includes port 80) with an HTTP readinessProbe on path '/' on port 80. Again, run it, check the readinessProbe, delete it.

Logging

Create a busybox pod that runs 'i=0; while true; do echo "$i: $(date)"; i=$((i+1)); sleep 1; done'. Check its logs

Debugging

Create a busybox pod that runs 'ls /notexist'. Determine if there's an error (of course there is), see it. In the end, delete the pod

Create a busybox pod that runs 'notexist'. Determine if there's an error (of course there is), see it. In the end, delete the pod forcefully with a 
0 grace period

Get CPU/memory utilization for nodes (metrics-server must be running)



2)

In this exercise, you will create a Pod running a NodeJS application. The Pod will define readiness and liveness probes with different parameters.

Defining a Pod’s Readiness and Liveness Probe

Create a new Pod named hello with the image bmuschko/nodejs-hello-world:1.0.0 that exposes the port 3000. Provide the name nodejs-port for the container port.
Add a Readiness Probe that checks the URL path / on the port referenced with the name nodejs-port after a 2 seconds delay. You do not have to define the period 
interval.
Add a Liveness Probe that verifies that the app is up and running every 8 seconds by checking the URL path / on the port referenced with the name nodejs-port. 
The probe should start with a 5 seconds delay.Shell into container and curl localhost:3000. Write down the output. Exit the container.
Retrieve the logs from the container. Write down the output.



3)

Create a POD that is running two container as side car container. The first container is running NGINX on web server port 80. The second is running bussy 
box container ie running sleep 3600 command. ENsure that busybox xontainer is only started once the NGINX server is started.


4)

Create a new Pod with the following YAML.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  labels:
    run: failing-pod
  name: failing-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - args:
    - /bin/sh
    - -c
    - while true; do echo $(date) >> ~/tmp/curr-date.txt; sleep
      5; done;
    image: busybox
    name: failing-pod
    resources: {}
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
  restartPolicy: Never
status: {}


Check the Pod's status. Do you see any issue?
Follow the logs of the running container and identify an issue.
Fix the issue by shelling into the container. After resolving the issue the current date should be written to a file. Render the output.
